========================
Cyclus 0.2 Release Notes
========================

:Author: Cyclus Developers
:Website: http://cyclus.github.io/
:Contact: cyclus-dev@googlegroups.com

The Cyclus core team is excited to announce the second stable version 
after over a year of development!  This includes nearly 1300 commits by 
6 developers.  Major features include, 

- A module separation effort. This required major changes to the building 
  and testing system. See Cycamore [1].

- Added tests and basic convenience features to various classes, mostly with 
  respect to the critical material class.

- Substantive performance improvements (~50x for some simulations).

- Output recording code rewrite.  

Changes from 0.1 to 0.2
=======================

New features
------------

- Added data type specification capability to rng system.
- Made various ResourceBuffer, Material Class, and model memory management 
  improvements and tests.
- Made the relaxng schema system modular.
- Made significant build system and installation changes to allow separating 
  the modules into Cycamore and creating CycStub.
- Moved modules into their own repository (Cycamore).
- Improved or added material convenience functions for developers such as 
  subtraction, un-normalization, and more.
- Added significant testing in Material, CompMap, and related classes.
- Added additional exception throwing for exceptional absorption and extraction 
  cases (extracted too much, absorbed negative).
- Made fixes to the build system to better address the needs of Mac OSX users.
- Added libxml++ as a dependency.
- Added features to the command line interface to allow output file 
  specification.
- Updated code base in accordance with Google Style Guide (0's to NULL when NULL 
  is intended, prepended iterators, moved curly braces, etc.)
- Expanded extraction by mass to allow various input units.
- Added functions and tests for almost equality and thresholding in the 
  material class.
- Created the CycArithmetic class which holds tools for more sophisticated 
  floating point arithmetic.
- Fixed absorption method bug (#493, https://github.com/cyclus/cyclus/issues/493).
- Substantive performance improvements (~50x for some simulations).
- Easier to create/record custom data to output.  Modular, drop-in support for 
  different output formats.  
- Top-level simulation flow broken into clear module loading, simulation 
  initialization/construction, simulation running, and module unloading steps.
- Added ability to invoke daily actions (technically this reduces the timestep to 
  a single day for modules that need to take advantage of the smaller granularity).
- IsoVector's compmap encapsulated in a separate class.
- IsoVector and material interfaces updated accordingly.
- Added an enrichment toolkit to assist with SWU/NatlU calculations.
- Added SWU/Natural uranium calculation methods.
- Added a facility-building and management interface kit, allowing for 
  intelligent facility build decision making.
- Added a commodity supply/demand toolkit, providing an interface for 
  supply/demand inquiry and supplier/demander registration with a manager.
- Added a commodity production toolkit, providing an interface to query agents 
  ability to produce commodities.
- Added a toolkit for modeling general symbolic functions and factory methods 
  to produce them.
- Added derived classes to model linear, exponential, and piecewise functions.
- Added a robust dynamic loading interface for dynamic libraries for easy opening, 
  access, and closing.
- Separated unix and windows-specific helper functions for dynamic loading.
- Added a generic interface for input querying.
- Added a specific interface for loading, parsing, and querying xml files, 
  including rng schema verification.
- Added interleaves to cyclus.rng's institution and region sections.
- Added capacity members to cyclus.rng.

Deprecations
------------

- Deprecated converter facilities.

Known bugs
----------

- Known Bug (#514): decayed compositions are not recorded in output database.


Contributors
============

The following people contributed to this release of Cyclus.  A "*" by their
name indicates a first time contributor.  Names follow alphabetically, 

* Robert Carlsen
* Matthew Gidden
* Katy Huff
* Anthony Scopatz*
* Zach Welch*
* Paul Wilson


References
==========

[1] Cycamore: https://github.com/cyclus/cycamore
