========================
Cyclus 0.4 Release Notes
========================

:Author: Cyclus Developers
:Website: http://fuelcycle.org/
:Contact: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cyclus-dev

The Cyclus core team is excited to announce the latest stable version 
of the cyclus ecosystem!  This includes over 415 commits by 
6 developers.  Major features include, 

- Brand new Dynamic Resource Exchange Procedure, removed the previous notion 
  of markets, CEP18

- Continuous integration for all pull requests now occurs via BaTLab though 
  polyphemus.

- Cleaned up API for model instantiation and deallocation.  Users no longer should
  worry about memory management of their models.

- Added regression tests to the test suite.

- Many bug and testing issues were fixed.

Since v0.3, 207 files have changed encompassing a net 9173 line insertions(+) and 
5043 deletions(-).

Changes from 0.3 to 0.4
=======================

New features
------------

- added more detail about context model ownership and stack models are bad. (7682c6c)
- changed clone methods to use context-arg constructor (eaede68)
- changed xml Init[Core/Module]Member fan methods to be InitFrom chain. 
  Gave model class a default val for model_impl_ to facilitate testing of xml init 
  methods. (3efb2b6)
- renamed InitCoreMembers to InitFrom (f6e0add)
- fixed deploy self as parent bug in xmlfileloader. Model class removes 'this' from 
  context model_list_ in destructor to prevent some segfaults when models are 
  allocated on the stack causing a double delete (one by runtime and one by context). 
  Put guard on context::DelModel to only delete if the model is in the model_list_ 
  (53ec514)
- made context model management more universal. Made model_list_ a std::set. 
  added doc comment about context model management. minor tweaks (45efa47)
- removed model_list getters from context class. model list is now entirely 
  context-private (4b18f0d)
- updated exclusivity adjustment. this bug wasn't evident (or testable) because 
  capacity-constraints will cause tomatch < remain which then will by definition 
  be tomatch < excl_val of arc. all tests pass and alls well. (0ee97f2)
- made greedy algorithm a little simpler for exclusive arcs (deb90a0)
- added a namespace specifically for solver testing (9eaa900)
- exclusive bids now supported and tested (a098999)
- smaller hdf5 table chunk size and turn compression on (a3c4e98)
- trimmed fat from cyclus.rng.in and finished rng cleanup. (e1928dd)
- added authorship file (f021d01)
- moved test objects off the heap, fixes the building manager tests (d6d60e9)
- renamed timeagent ta vars to timelistener tl vars (3728fa0)
- removed boost date stuff from timer (60df1c9)
- renamed timeagent to timelistener and methods to just tick/tock. 
  removed daily tasks (4b07b64)
- renamed EventManager to Recorder and renamed Event to Datum and EventBackend to 
  RecBackend (8d2b9a6)
- initialized more members of the exchange node struct (3193d72)
- updated the initfrom interface to be easier to use/more intuitive (b2ba4e1)
- made context more resource generic (ed39a0d)
- buffers default to having a capacity (8497bf5)
- added a context helper for a facility with many input and output recipes and 
  commodities (13cffc7)
- added a hook for the context to register a facility (136d13a)
- added a resource exchange class (4a810d9)
- added request portfolios and associated tests. required notion of equality of 
  capacity constraints and requests and required notion of ordering of capacity 
  constraints for use as a map key, so I added an id member and associated < operator. 
  (f464cb8)
- added request class and associated tests for materials (202048c)


Known bugs
----------
N/A

Contributors
============

The following people contributed to this release of Cyclus.  A "*" by their
name indicates a first time contributor.  Names follow alphabetically, 

* Robert Carlsen
* Royal Elmore
* Matthew Gidden
* Katy Huff
* Olzhas Rakhimov
* Anthony Scopatz
* Zach Welch
* Paul Wilson

