========================
Cyclus 1.1 Release Notes
========================
:Author: Cyclus Developers
:Website: http://fuelcycle.org/
:Contact: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cyclus-dev

The Cyclus core team is excited to announce the latest stable version 
of the cyclus ecosystem! This includes nearly 300 commits by 
8 developers.  

Major features
==============
- Ability to force decay calculations off everywhere in the simulation.
- A menagerie of new datatypes:

    * ``std::vector<float>``
    * ``std::vector<double>``
    * ``std::set<std::string>``
    * ``std::list<std::string>``
    * ``std::pair<int, int>``
    * ``std::map<int, double>``
    * ``std::map<int, std::string>``
    * ``std::map<std::string, int>``
    * ``std::map<std::string, double>``
    * ``std::map<std::string, std::string>``

- Human-readable nuclide names may now be uses in input files.
- Memory leak bug fix.
- New 'schematype' state variable annotation allows archetype developers to
  explicitly set the XML datatype in the schema for a given state variable, 
  rather than relying on defaults.
- Quantity-based constraints added to DRE.
- Automatic archetype discovery with '-l' and '-a' command line arguments.
- Better error handling in cycpp.
- Optional allocation optimization using tcmalloc.

Since v1.0,

* Cyclus: 243 commits resulted in 274 changed files encompassing a net 24,441
line insertions(+) and 5,222 deletions(-).

* Cycamore: 38 commits resulted in 69 changed files encompassing a net 1,948
line insertions(+) and 1,855 deletions(-).

Contributors
============
The following people contributed to this release of Cyclus.  A "*" by their
name indicates a first time contributor.  Names follow alphabetically, 

* Robert Carlsen
* Matthew Gidden
* Katy Huff
* Arrielle Opotowsky
* Olzhas Rakhimov
* Anthony Scopatz
* Zach Welch
* Paul Wilson
