========================
Cyclus 1.2 Release Notes
========================
:Author: Cyclus Developers
:Website: http://fuelcycle.org/
:Contact: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/cyclus-dev

The Cyclus core team is excited to announce the latest stable version 
of the cyclus ecosystem! This includes over 125 commits by 5 developers.  

Major features
==============
- Added 'entity' key to the archetype annotations. This may take on one of the 
  following values: region, institution, facility, archetype, or unknown. 
- Added further reflection to archetypes by including 'parents' and 'all_parents' 
  lists to the metadata.
- Added archetype name to metadata annotations.
- Nicer looking JSON strings.
- Fixed dynamic loading error that was triggered in weird cases on linux.
- The command ``cyclus -m`` now returns all metadata.
- Added Squash() functions to MatQuery class.
- Added 'nuclide' to availible 'uitypes'.
- Added Extra debugging info via ``CYCLUS_DEBUG_DRE`` environment variable.
- Added new experimental ResBuf class for resource buffering.
- Added optional tails buffer to enrichment class. 
- Many bug fixes.

Since v1.1,

* Cyclus: 95 commits resulted in 644 changed files encompassing a net 2347
line insertions(+) and 397 deletions(-).

* Cycamore: 33 commits resulted in 15 changed files encompassing a net 93
line insertions(+) and 91 deletions(-).

Contributors
============
The following people contributed to this release of Cyclus.  A "*" by their
name indicates a first time contributor.  Names follow alphabetically, 

* Robert Carlsen
* Robert Flanagan*
* Matthew Gidden
* Katy Huff
* Arrielle Opotowsky
* Olzhas Rakhimov
* Anthony Scopatz
* Zach Welch
* Paul Wilson
* John Xia*
